Probably the big philosophical idea I take from this is to design your API’s with the expectation that others will be using it. This means it should adhere to the common protocol/REST API format and your code should be reasonably accessible within this format without the user needing to know details of your API’s internals. This includes things like making your ID’s contain URL’s rather than single digit numbers so you know which URL path is related to which ID (from my understanding). Also the concept of making relationships between entities and identity of entities in such a way that it relies on immutable characteristics of the entities was a good guide. In general, the idea of making your API such that users will need minimal knowledge of internals and it adheres to a standard expected protocol are the two big waterfall considerations from which all other principles derive. 

I also found the example of flattening the json representation of facebook data for more flexible and “open to change” access a good one – but I’m past my one paragraph so I’ll stop there. 

I could perhaps use a bit more of an explanation on making json data with a field which links to another API. There was the example of Lassie’s owner where the owner is at a different URL – an example of a scenario where the entity one API is mentioning is in a different application (integration). I think I understood it, but the basic idea to confirm is to link the full URL location of the second entity within your API’s json? Wouldn’t this have some issues with maintenance where that URL or format for the API may change and so there’s some danger of having a dead link in your API which may never get updated if the author’s aren’t properly aware or if they’re never notified of this change. Seems like some sort of automated testing suite of tools would be useful for API builders to handle regular testing which the author’s wouldn’t have time or remember to do and alerts the author if something fails and changes need to be made. I also could use a review of what CRUD is. 
